`ApplicationState` Enhancements - Documentation (#2269)
hashicorp/design-system: website/docs/components/application-state/partials/guidelines/guidelines.md

### When not to use

- When the absence of content is expected and does not require an explanation to the user.
- When there is a clear and intuitive way to add or populate content.

## Alignment

The Application State supports two alignment options: `left` and `center`. The alignment affects text alignment, action placement/alignment in the footer, and media placement; however, it does not affect page placement.

**Center alignment**

![Center aligned application state](/assets/components/application-state/application-state-alignment-center.png)

**Left alignment**

![Left aligned application state](/assets/components/application-state/application-state-alignment-left.png)

## Media

The media slot is used to add illustrations to increase the visual impact of the Application State.
This provides additional visual prominence while also elevating the brand experience. If the illustration has a circular container, we recommend setting the `alignment` to `center`.

![Empty state for vault secrets, guiding user to create new secrets or importing them](/assets/components/application-state/application-state-media-slot-spot-illustration-center-alignment.png)

## Header

### Icon

> When set to true, the icon is displayed side by side with the title.

Reviewer: This works by passing an icon name to the `Header` subcomponent.

For example:

```
<ApplicationState as |A|>
  <A.Header @icon="alert-circle" @title="Danger!" />
</ApplicationState>
```

Author: Maybe this should be reworded to "when set" instead of "when set to true."

![Empty state for vault secrets, guiding user to create new secrets or importing them](/assets/components/application-state/application-state-media-slot-spot-illustration-center-alignment.png)

This is commonly used when displaying an error state for application failures. The icon must always be accompanied by a title.

### Title

The title should be short and provide a clear and concise message.

### Error code

If enabled and available, an error code will be shown, providing additional information associated with the title.

## Body

> Focus on relevant information and avoid unnecessary details. If there is an error, include suggestions or guidance for how the user can resolve the issue, if possible. If no objects are found (zero/empty state), provide a brief explanation on how creating this new objective will benefit the user. 

Reviewer: Maybe a callout for the errorCode attribute? Not sure if we prefer people to use it where applicable, or if it's just an option.

Author: The errorCode was mentioned in the section above this one. This is specifically talking about adding more details in the body if this application state is associated to an error.

### When to use

- When an application encounters an issue or error during its operation.

> - When an application needs emphasis on the creation of a new object within a null state.

Reviewer 2: [suggestion]
```suggestion
- When emphasis is needed on the creation of a new object within a null state.
```

### When not to use

- When the absence of content is expected and does not require an explanation to the user.
- When there is a clear and intuitive way to add or populate content.

## Alignment

The Application State supports two alignment options: `left` and `center`. The alignment affects text alignment, action placement/alignment in the footer, and media placement; however, it does not change the default page alignment.

!!! Info

> By default, the Application State has horizontal auto margins applied to it, always centering it on the page. This can be overridden with CSS properties.

Reviewer 2: [question] Is this also true depending on the container the component is used within?

```suggestion
By default, the Application State has horizontal auto margins applied to it, always centering it on the page or containing element. This can be overridden with CSS properties.
```

!!!

> **Center alignment**

Reviewer 2: [suggestion] These could be headlines, but I'm not opinionated about it. Just noting it in case it might be useful to link to them directly.
```suggestion
### Center alignment
```

![Center aligned application state](/assets/components/application-state/application-state-alignment-center.png)

> **Left alignment**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Left alignment
```

![Left aligned application state](/assets/components/application-state/application-state-alignment-left.png)

## Media

The media slot is used to add illustrations to increase the visual impact of the Application State.

> This provides additional visual prominence while also elevating the brand experience. If the illustration has a circular container, we recommend setting the `alignment` to `center`.

Reviewer 2: [nit] If this is going to be the start of a new paragraph, there needs to be an extra return in between lines 33 and 34. Otherwise the content is combined in the same paragraph, which for consistency should probably be reflected in markdown.

Author: Yeah, ill update it to this:
```suggestion

This provides additional visual prominence while also elevating the brand experience. If the illustration has a circular container, we recommend setting the `alignment` to `center`.
```

> ![Empty state for vault secrets, guiding user to create new secrets or importing them](/assets/components/application-state/application-state-media-slot-spot-illustration-center-alignment.png)

Reviewer 2: [nit] Vault Secrets is a proper noun.

```suggestion
![Empty state for Vault Secrets, guiding user to create new secrets or importing them](/assets/components/application-state/application-state-media-slot-spot-illustration-center-alignment.png)
```

## Header

### Icon

When set, the icon is displayed side by side with the title.

![Showing an icon left of the title, with some body text below it.](/assets/components/application-state/application-state-icon-usage.png)

This is commonly used when displaying an error state for application failures. The icon must always be accompanied by a title.

### Title

The title should be short and provide a clear and concise message.

### Error code

> If enabled and available, an error code will be shown, providing additional information associated with the title.

Reviewer 2: I'm not 100% clear what you mean by "available", is this referring to if an application runs into an error that corresponds with a specific code?

## Body

> Focus on relevant information and avoid unnecessary details. If there is an error, include suggestions or guidance for how the user can resolve the issue, if possible. If no objects are found (zero/empty state), provide a brief explanation on how creating this new objective will benefit the user. 

Reviewer 3: This part of the sentence seems awkward/unclear to me: "creating this new objective"

Do you mean provide info to the user on how/why they can add content?

Reviewer 2: Did you mean this?

```suggestion
Focus on relevant information and avoid unnecessary details. If there is an error, include suggestions or guidance for how the user can resolve the issue, if possible. If no objects are found (zero/empty state), provide a brief explanation on how creating this new object will benefit the user. 
```

The body allows for two types of content: `text` and `generic`.

![Showing two different kind of body content types, one as text and another as generic yielded content](/assets/components/application-state/application-state-body-content-types.png)

## Footer

> The Application State supports up to three actions, including [Dropdown](/components/dropdown), [Standalone Link](/components/link/standalone) and [Button](/components/button). Use footer actions to redirect or guide users in solving errors/access issues with actionable steps.

Reviewer 2: [suggestion] This might read a bit cleaner in the last sentence.

```suggestion
The Application State supports up to three actions, including [Dropdown](/components/dropdown), [Standalone Link](/components/link/standalone) and [Button](/components/button). Use footer actions to help users resolve errors or access issues with actionable steps.
```

> ![A button set showing a dropdown, secondary button and stand alone link](/assets/components/application-state/application-state-footer-action-types.png)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
![A button set showing a dropdown, secondary button, and stand alone link](/assets/components/application-state/application-state-footer-action-types.png)
```

### Using buttons or links

> Buttons, along with links, are used to emphasize the importance of the action in the Application State with visual hierarchy, and are the most common actions used in the footer.

Reviewer 3: This part seems unclear to me "used to emphasize the importance of the action in the Application State with visual hierarchy".

Isn't the main purpose of Buttons & Links to provide the user with actionable options?

Reviewer 3: Thanks. I would look to explain why someone would want to use a button vs. a link & vice versa and how that impacts visual hierarchy.

(Btw, would we also want to mention appropriate usage apart from visual designs of HTML links/anchor tags vs. HTML buttons or is that outside the scope here?)

Reviewer 4: +1 to what @KristinLBradley has said here. We have already taught folks that a button is for an action (submitting a form, opening a modal, etc), and a link is for a URL. 

We are already stretching things by having links that visually present as buttons (and/or vice-versa). I wonder if there's some way to indicate this in the design guidance?

I still want us to be encouraging folks to do the correct thing for a11y, KWIM?

!!! Dont

> When there is an empty state that occupies the majority of the page, do not display two exact actions at the same time in different areas of the UI. In this example, there is a primary button in the Page Header and in the Application State. 

Reviewer 3: This phrasing seems awkward and unclear: "do not display two exact actions at the same time in different areas of the UI"

Reviewer 2: Maybe try this?

```suggestion
When there is an empty state that occupies the majority of the page, do not display two similar actions in different areas of the UI. In this example, there is a primary button in the Page Header and in the Application State. 
```

![Showing an empty state with a primary button with a page header with out a primay button](/assets/components/application-state/application-state-empty-state-do-keep-one-primary-cta.png)

!!!

### Using dropdowns

Dropdowns can be used as actions in the footer in rare cases. Limit dropdowns to one per Application State.

![Showing an empty state with a primary button with a page header with out one](/assets/components/application-state/application-state-dropdown-actions.png)

## Width constraints

The Application State’s content has a max width of 480 pixels. This is done for better readability, ensuring that the max character count is close to 70 characters per line.

## Examples

Here are some common use cases for the Application State, however, it is not limited to just these two examples.

### Error state

Error states are used when the application encounters an issue or error during its operation. It shows the associated error code, icon, messages and actions to help users find a solution.

![Showing an example of an error state with a 404 error code and two links](/assets/components/application-state/application-state-error-state.png)

### Empty state

> Empty states are used when a user has yet to create an object. Illustrations are placed using the `media` slot to further elevate the experience and express the purpose of the object.

Reviewer 2: I'm not actually sure on this, would benefit from a second opinion, but saying "are used" reads weird to me because they aren't necessarily an intentional use, more of a fallback for when there isn't anything.

```suggestion
An empty state occurs when a user has yet to create an object. Illustrations are placed using the `media` slot to further elevate the experience and express the purpose of the object.
```

Author: Agreed, updating.

### When to use

- When an application encounters an issue or error during its operation.
- When emphasis is needed on the creation of a new object within a null state.

### When not to use

- When the absence of content is expected and does not require an explanation to the user.
- When there is a clear and intuitive way to add or populate content.

## Alignment

> The Application State supports two alignment options: `left` and `center`. The alignment affects text alignment, action placement/alignment in the footer, and media placement; however, it does not change the default page alignment.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The Application State supports two alignment options: `left` (default) and `center`. The alignment affects text alignment, action placement/alignment in the footer, and media placement; however, it does not change the default page alignment.
```

!!! Info

By default, the Application State has horizontal auto margins applied to it, always centering it on the page or containing element. This can be overridden with CSS properties.

!!!

### Center alignment

![Center aligned application state](/assets/components/application-state/application-state-alignment-center.png)

> ### Left alignment

Reviewer 5: Given that this is the default, should this come first?

![Left aligned application state](/assets/components/application-state/application-state-alignment-left.png)

## Media

> The media slot is used to add illustrations to increase the visual impact of the Application State.

Reviewer 5: In theory not just illustrations. Should we be more generic?

Author: Correct, however from a UX perspective this is our recommendation which is why it's written as such. We're trying to drive for more consistency.

The body allows for two types of content: `text` and `generic`.

![Showing two different kind of body content types, one as text and another as generic yielded content](/assets/components/application-state/application-state-body-content-types.png)

## Footer
The Application State supports up to three actions, including [Dropdown](/components/dropdown), [Standalone Link](/components/link/standalone), and [Button](/components/button) components. Use footer actions to help users resolve errors or access issues with actionable steps.

![A button set showing a dropdown, secondary button, and stand alone link](/assets/components/application-state/application-state-footer-action-types.png)

### Using buttons or links

Buttons, along with links, are the most common actions used in the footer. Buttons are more often used in empty state contexts because they provide high visibility for the primary action on the page. Links are more common in error state contexts as a means to provide a solution to the error they encountered. 

> Read more about when to use [Buttons](/components/button) and [Links](/components/link/standalone).

Author: @KristinLBradley @MelSumner is this a better approach to this section? Tried to be a little more specific when to use what without rewriting each component's docs.
